OK so let's let's go to what.

Basically ethical hackers do in their career

ethical hackers perform imitations of real world attacks.

But of course no one is interested in just getting the idea whether they can be hacked or not.

Right.

So the binary answer of.

Yeah.

We have breaking in or we haven't broken in because so I don't know.

We had we had less money than expected for that or we had less time than is required for that.

Okay.

That is not very interesting to the clients.

So the work of ethical hackers is much more methodical than the black hats.

So Black has just striking to the abuses they know exists and they just find them in the targets.

And this is how they choose targets.

OK.

Basically they just know that something is wrong with the word breast right now and they target word

breast based websites.

What ethical hackers do they choose their targets based on their clients Glans relationships.

OK.

So they find a sales opportunity they pitch the idea of being hacked before bad guys cause you harm.

And then they just perform a penetration test or security audit or security assessment and they do that

according to a certain methodology.

Because because being methodical is very important in two aspects first of all everything you do should

be repeatable.

OK.

So the clients should have at least a theoretical ability to reproduce your actions OK.

And they have to do that according to some methodology because otherwise if there is no methodology

to follow they will just rely on your work.

And this is not very professional.

And there are other applications implications of that.

And the second thing is that there is different level of technical skill and experience in the industry

so using methodology basically lets us transfer a lot of work downstream in this skill tree.

OK.

From more experienced guys less experience.

Got to

give them incentive to do more to do more different job to do a more difficult job and this way progress

and get experience and become become those more experienced guys.

So a methodology is is how we formulate what we know what we can do to the people who are just very

new to that and are in the beginning or half way to us in this role.

What is the difference between security audit security assessments and penetration tests.

These are just different things we can do about a system in order to assess its security level.

OK.

But that's very important to understand that security audits just based on the definition of a word

audit is not a pen test or assessment.

It's a very specific thing that is related to the previous history you know.

So so every time we use this word audit we mean that we review previous history.

We review some period of time and we make conclusions not just assumptions we make specific conclusions

that are proved proven by the evidence that we collect that something was going on for a period of time.

For example we have a control authentication control access control right and we review the excess looks

and we conclude that this control was active continuously during last year and was effective and no

one was going in.

Other than using this access control mechanism.

What a security assessment that's that's a different thing.

Simpler one actually that's just the understanding what's going on right now.

So taking a snapshot in time and assessing the posture of a system.

Yeah.

So in this way for example auditing is different from beside you assess like security assessment.

Yes.

Do you assess are called that for a reason.

They're not auditors they're qualified security assessors who are going in and seeing things and making

conclusions about what's going on right now.

They're not very much interested in what was going on before they came in.

Right.

They're interested in what's going on right now.

And for that just suggest for example as part of the job they verify whether penetration test took place

regularly.

OK.

So they want to know whether right now three's a progress on on a previously issued penetration test

reports and you just have to show it to them.

And they just see what's in the results but they aren't interested whether everything is fixed.

You have to be.

It has to be a work in progress right now.

Okay.

So what is penetration test it's a test.

First of all so it's something very interactive.

We are issuing signals and seeing how systems or people are reacting to them.

OK.

So that's very much just testing anything just producing some impulses and assessing and observing the

results.

So we are interacting with an object with the target in order to understand how it reacts to different

types of attacks.

We generate these attacks and we understand how system reacts to it.

So if if the reaction is appropriate we conclude that the security posture is OK is the reaction is

not appropriate is lower than expected.

We conclude that there is a security issue.

We dig deeper we understand what's the vulnerability and create a recommendation on how to remove it

or how to make things more secure.

After we go away so penetration test is indirectly testing the system in terms of resilience and the

resistance to security threats slash attacks.

OK.

What is the assessment scope.

This is something very general.

And this relates to any type of security assessment right including penetration testing security audits.

This is some boundaries in time space that define what is going to be assessed.

So for example it's it's an area or it's a name of a company mentioning that NSA any 80 a set of this

company is within the scope or is just the wild card the DNS name.

Or at least explicit list of IP addresses or you or else or API calls whatever.

So it can be very different.

It can be broad can be narrow the broader it is the more high quality results I think hackers can produce

when they assess that scope however large scopes are very very questionable.

And also you have to assess the scope in terms of the methodology you use.

But the large scopes and the methodology of chosen methodology for white box explicit testing of everything

provided in the scope statement can be very time consuming.

OK.

So you have to balance that when the when you negotiate the scope with the customer and the clients

should understand that the only things in the scope will be tested and that nor narrowing down the scope

to a few very secure targets will not give them understanding about what's the general security posture

is this is the very tricky topic I guess we'll discuss this further and what what's what's what's the

what's the matter of the chosen methodology against.

So as as this matter of

coloring of painting had some different colors shows you security professionals like liked to paint

and different ideologies.

Full normally fall down into one of three categories that's either black box testing or white box testing

or something between cold grey box testing.

Yeah I'm not a big fan of of coloring these boxes but still have to use some terminology and however

we can that we can not we cannot be sure and we cannot guarantee that there is something on these edges

right.

That is a completely black box or completely white box because there are always these gray areas.

So anything we do is create box naturally but it's bias to either black edge or white edge of this security

methodology scale.

So what does it mean.

Black box means first of all what you have zero knowledge about the scope when we start the assessment

is does not mean that we physically right have zero knowledge about that.

But this implies that we will use a methodology with this premise right.

With this perception of zero knowledge about the scope we will act such as in a manner that implies

that we don't have any knowledge so we will have to go through all the reconnaissance stages starting

from zero knowledge and show that yeah the data that we are using further in the assessment was obtained

from the zero level from the zero knowledge about the scope.

This is very important to show the business risk because if we just know something we have to show that

other people that black hat hackers can can know that as well.

After some time Googling or doing other type of open source intelligence white books on the other hand

is complete different thing.

It means that we do not spend time on reconnaissance at all.

We have unlimited knowledge about the scope from the very beginning.

This normally implies thein directive our ability to interact with any personnel involved in security

operations.

So any developer and it develops engineer anyone who can be reached and asked about different things

about the scope will be reached and asked.

OK so this is this is another extreme point.

This is this is not possible normally because for example when we have white box testing we mean that

we can access the source code of an application that is not normally possible due to some self-importance

are off the shelf ones and this source code is not readily available.

So yeah we fall somewhere in between.

We have some sort of a black box when we just explicitly define the scope and we don't have any information

about what the what's the operating system that's running on this specific caused by this IP address

but we know the IP address or domain name.

Or we have a domain and we have to dig into it and retrieve all the hosts that belong to this domain.

And on the networks that they are in and then we can scan these networks to identify additional horse

and four or five whether they belong to the same company and so on so yeah this is quite tricky but

just to sum it up we have different type of assessments and we have different type of methodologies

that can differ from black books through grade books to white books.